Homework #1 (Due Feb 6, 2020)



Please do these all in a python notebook that you can turn in via github. See the original repository for instructions for turning in HWs. Homeworks should be in your folder inside the `Students` folder. 



1.  From elementary statistics, you know that the standard deviation

    of the mean of N points drawn from a gaussian distribution is

    sigma/sqrt(N), where sigma is the standard deviation of the parent

    population.  Please write a python program to demonstrate this

    with, for example, 1000 realizations of a gaussian distribution of

    10000 numbers.  Use the np.random.rand() function in numpy to

    produce the gaussian distribution.  Plot a histogram of the means. 





2.  It is common in astronomy to combine a set of numbers with a

    median instead of a mean.  Curiously, the median is a "noisier"

    statistic than the mean.  Modify your program to compute the

    standard deviation of the median of a gaussian distribution.  Plot

    a histogram of the medians.  Plot the histogram of the means and

    overplot the histogram of the medians.  There are various ways to

    plot both in the same panel, take your pick.



2(b)  (extra credit)  Calculate analytically the ratio of the two

    previous answers - i.e. by what factor is the stdev of the median

    larger than the stdev of the mean?





3.  On a different topic, write a function called "points" that take

    one parameter, N, returns an image with N points drawn from a

    Gaussian centered at the center of the image.  Use plot range

    [-6,6] in both dimensions, and sigma=1 for the gaussian.  This

    will "simulate" photons from a star hitting a detector.  Now add a

    sky background that also has N photons with a uniform spatial

    distribution (so use np.random.random() but scale it so it goes

    [-6,6] instead of [0,1]).  Run the program for N=1000 or several

    thousand.

    Show the image you populate with these "photons" with plt.imshow()

    (or whatever). 


